in the 1960s Honda launched the iconic
monkey bike Allah to help try and sort
out Japan's congestion issues and since
then it's had a cult following in 2013
they launched this the mini street
extreme 125 going from a classic looking
little retro surf bike into a mini
street fighter supermoto s style machine
now I wanted to get my hands on one of
these for a while so I've come to doable
motorcycles in Croydon but they're
letting me borrow this little bumblebee
for the day
look at me I'm smiling already I haven't
even ridden it yet
so I've been out tearing up the streets
on the MSX for a good few hours this
morning I thought I'd pull up here at
Rikers our favorite biking hot spot in
the south and take a closer look at it
it's powered by Honda's trusty proven
125 CC air-cooled single cylinder
four-stroke engine producing around
about nine horsepower now you may look
at this and think what's just a scooter
twist and go but actually it's got a
conventional 4-speed gearbox clutch and
chain drive just like a normal bike
proper big bike only in a very small
package a bit like my t-shirts when I
washed them though following on with the
big bike theme it looks really trick I
mean it's got upside down forks on the
front monoshock on the rear single brake
disc Nissen calipers front and back the
LCD dash is really nice and I think you
kind of get a lot for this bike this
size it's quite unusual so you've got
obviously your speedo you've got how
many miles you've done twin trip meters
the time and also a fuel gauge which
again is quite unusual for a bike this
size how about ride aids well it's got
none it's got no ABS no electronics
you just got your two wheels you just
see your engine and your handlebars
Honda says that the MSX does around
about 134 miles per gallon so on its 5.5
litre tank you're looking at about 160
miles I've been riding all morning and
the fuel gauge has gone down by one bar
the tires you're looking at around about
50 pounds for a pair this would be a
really good bike for budding young
riders to have at the age of like 17 I
know that I would have much preferred to
have had something like this then my
katana R which I did have my little
twist and go this has just got a bit
more street cred
now I love the look of the original
monkey bike I think it looks really cute
really classic retro obviously Honda
have taken a completely different
direction with the MSX it's more Street
more urban street fighter' supermoto
style like kawasaki said hundred which i
know we don't get in the UK but that
type of look I think would appeal to
younger riders newer riders then say to
dukey's van van where they've kept the
original retro styling okay so that's
enough about the boring practical
technical stuff let's talk about the fun
stuff because essentially that's what
this bike is all about
to me it really feels like a mini
miracle spike and I just really want to
take it off-road so I wouldn't know
I was expecting the MSX to be a bit of
an uncomfortable ride because the seat
is apparently quite hard well I didn't
find it hard at all I found it quite
soft but that might be because I've got
extra padding in my junk the suspension
is really soft and I felt that every
time I went over a bump that I was being
launched off the seat but that's all
part and parcel of the fun of riding
this bike it's also really easy to slow
ride as it's so well balanced but I mean
you can get your feet flat on the floor
on this anyway and if you can't then
maybe it's not the right bike for you
maybe you should even be riding bikes as
you can see there's a pillion si foot
pegs but I don't think it's a very good
bite take a pillion on I mean when I was
riding it my bomb was right at the back
of the seat so there would be any room
for them and if you did have someone
you'd be right up against the tank and
what I quite liked about this bike is
that you do move around a lot on the
seat so you kind of adopt a bit of a
supermoto riding style I quite like the
fact that you are able to move around on
it quite freely and feel safe still even
though you've got little tires talk
about small wheels sorry nothing
personal how does this bike handle well
I've kind of done a bit of everything
today I've been around the town I've
been on dual carriageways round country
lanes offroad you can obviously go on
the motorway honest I've heard that it
does up to like 64 miles per hour but I
think you'd be a little bit vulnerable
kind of going those kind of speeds on
the motorway where this bike really
excels is in the town filtering through
traffic beating most cars I'd say off
the traffic lights and being able to
park it in little small spaces but when
you do park it up you need to think
about how you can keep it safe because
let's face it you could just pick this
bike up and stick it in a van off you go
I found out that during the development
of this light klunder actually applied
for four patents that
this bike is for them it's not a toy
this is too
when riding this it feels really well
made just what you'd expect from a
normal sized Honda but for me there are
a couple of little issues the mirrors I
don't see the point in them because
they're a little bit dangerous where
they are you have to kind of like juggle
around to try and see anything and also
the switch gears they're really close
together and we little so every time I
was going to indicate I'd hit the horn
which isn't ideal I did think that I'd
be picking up the 2016 model this
morning which has had a few updates to
make it look even more aggressive new
headlights new styling the seats a
little bit higher at the back and also
an underslung exhaust but and I'm
speaking to the sales guys at dough
balls and they said they've still got a
few of these left so you could be
looking at a really good deal maybe a
few hundred pounds off that to $8.99 so
a really good deal
we check those I suck their dick in an
empty field now you may have noticed
that I have been on bike fold for a
while whenever I'm on two wheels I'm
always smiling but today being back on
these two wheels I have genuinely been
laughing out loud it's been that much
fun it's it's great to see people's
reactions when you go past and I like to
take the laughing with me it got ugly
who cares anyway
me